---
layout: post
title: "PTCE"
date: 2019-05-10
categories: Personal
---
(This post is a work in progress.)

I recently started a job as a pharmacy technician. It has been a humbling experience as I have struggled with learning the ropes. Now that the spring semester has ended, I have devoted the time between spring and summer semester to studying for the PTCE (Pharmacy Technician Certification Exam). This post is to explain my process with studying for the exam and outline some resources that might be helpful for others to use as well.

**Tools/Resources**
1. Books. I downloaded two books from Library Genesis (LibGen). The first of which was titled: "Pharmacy Technician Exam: Complete Test Preparation (3rd Edition)" by Learning Express. The second was titled: Pharmacy Technician Exam: Certification and Review" by McGraw Hill Education.
2. Websites. I used the /r/PharmacyTechnician subreddit to find a handful of helpful tools and websites. www.pharmacy-tech-study.com was incredibly helpful with outlining the test and its subsections.
3. Apps. I started with using Khan Academy to brush up on the basic algebra used on the test. After deliberating over spending $15 for a full-version of an app, I finally caved in and bought the PTCB PocketPrep app on Google play. Both Khan Academy and PocketPrep are available online as well (which is helpful both on-the-go) and when I'm not at work.

I started with reviewing math sections. Proportional equations and basic algebra are needed and (as someone who has rarely ever stepped outside of the US) conversions between metric and customary units were tricky memorizing at first.

As I continued working in the pharmacy, the top 200 drugs and the "fast-movers" in the pharmacy became easier and easier to memorize. I made flashcards using the top 200 on www.pharmacy-tech-study.com and am now using those flashcards to keep on top of the drugs, generic names, and their uses.

In the future, I want to learn the laws and regulations as well. Over time, it will become easier due to my on-the-spot training, but I want to ensure that I understand everything before I take the exam over the summer. -- 5/10/19

